---
id: Toolbar
cssPrefix: pf-c-toolbar
propComponents: ['Toolbar', 'ToolbarContent', 'ToolbarGroup', 'ToolbarItem', 'ToolbarToggleGroup', 'ToolbarFilter']
section: components
---

import EditIcon from '@patternfly/react-icons/dist/esm/icons/edit-icon';
import CloneIcon from '@patternfly/react-icons/dist/esm/icons/clone-icon';
import SyncIcon from '@patternfly/react-icons/dist/esm/icons/sync-icon';
import FilterIcon from '@patternfly/react-icons/dist/esm/icons/filter-icon';
import SearchIcon from '@patternfly/react-icons/dist/esm/icons/search-icon';

## Examples

### Toolbar items

Toolbar items are individual components that can be placed inside of a toolbar. Buttons or select lists are examples of items. (Note: This example does not demonstrate the desired responsive behavior of the toolbar. That is handled in later examples.)

```ts file="./ToolbarItems.tsx"
```

### Toolbar item spacers

You may adjust the space between toolbar items to better visually organize and group items. 

Read our spacers documentaiton to learn more about its guidelines.

Items are spaced 16px apart by default. To adjust the size of the space between itemms, use the `spacer` property of each `<ToolbarItem>`. You can set the `spacer` value at multiple breakpoints, including "default", "md", "lg, "xl", and "2xl". Into each breakpoint you can pass "spacerNone", "spacerSm", "spacerMd", or "spacerLg". 

```ts file="./ToolbarSpacers.tsx"
```

### Toolbar items with adjusted widths

You can adjust the width of toolbar items to better fit the container they are in.

The default width of a toolbar item is 100px. To change this width, pass different width values into the item's `widths` property. You can set the value at  multiple breakpoints, including "default", "sm", "md", "lg, "xl", and "2xl".

```ts file="./ToolbarWidths.tsx"
```

### With adjusted inset

use the `inset` property of a `<Toolbar>`. You can set the inset value at multiple breakpoints, including "default", "md", "lg, "xl", and "2xl".

```ts file="./ToolbarInsets.tsx"
```

### Sticky toolbar

To prevent a toolbar from scrolling with other content, make it sticky. This locks the toolbar and prevents it from moving as you scroll through content. 

In the following example, toggle the selection fo the "is toolbar sticky" checkbox to visualize a regular and a sticky toolbar. 

```ts file="./ToolbarSticky.tsx"
```

### With groups of items

You can group similar items together to create desired associations and to enable items to respond together to changes in viewport width. 

(Note: This example does not demonstrate responsive toolbar behavior. That is handled in the examples with toggle groups and filters.)

```ts file="./ToolbarGroups.tsx"
```

## Examples with toggle groups and filters

A toggle group can be used when you want to collapse a set of items into an overlay panel at a certain breakpoint. This allows complex toolbars with multiple items and groups of items to be responsive. A toggle group is useful for containing filter controls, for example. When the toolbar responds to adapt to a mobile viewport, the contents contained in a toggle group will collapse into an overlay panel that can be toggled by clicking the Filter icon.

### Component managed toggle groups



```ts file="./ToolbarComponentManagedToggleGroups.tsx"
```

### Consumer managed toggle groups

If the consumer would prefer to manage the expanded state of the toggle group for smaller screen widths:

1. Add a toggleIsExpanded callback to Toolbar
2. Pass in a boolean into the isExpanded prop to Toolbar

- Note: Although the toggle group is aware of the consumer provided breakpoint, the expandable content is not. So if the expandable content is expanded and the screen width surpasses that of the breakpoint, then the expandable content will not know that and will remain open, this case should be considered and handled by the consumer as well.

```ts file="./ToolbarConsumerManagedToggleGroups.tsx"
```

### With filters

You can add a filter group to a toolbar to let users filter the content that a toolbar manages.

When a toolbar is filtered, it will expand in height to make space for a row of filter chips and a "Clear all filters" button. Upon clearing the applied filters, the toolbar will return to its default height.

The ToolbarFilter component expects a consumer managed list of applied filters and a delete chip handler to be passed as props. Pass a deleteChipGroup prop to provide both a handler and visual styling to remove all chips in a group. Then the rendering of chips will be handled responsively by the Toolbar


```ts file="./ToolbarWithFilters.tsx"
```

### With custom chip group content

The chip groups generated by toolbar filters may be further customized through the `customChipGroupContent` property, which will append to the filter chip groups. This property will remove the default `Clear all filters` button.

```ts file="./ToolbarCustomChipGroupContent.tsx"
```

### Stacked example

When all of a toolbar's required elements cannot fit in a single line, you can split toolbar items into multiple rows.

```ts file="./ToolbarStacked.tsx"
```
